info.md, before:

[![GitHub Release][releases-shield]][releases]
[![GitHub Activity][commits-shield]][commits]
[![License][license-shield]][license]

[![hacs][hacsbadge]][hacs]
[![Project Maintenance][maintenance-shield]][user_profile]

[![Community Forum][forum-shield]][forum]

**This component will set up the following platforms.**

Platform | Description
-- | --
`sensor` | Adds a `device state` sensor, a `battery level` sensor and a `signal` sensor (disabled by default) for each device.
`siren` | Represents Elro Connects alarms as a siren. Turn the siren `ON` to test it. Turn it `OFF` to silence the (test) alarm.

The `device_state` sensor can have of the following states:
- `FAULT`
- `SILENCE`
- `TEST ALARM`
- `FIRE ALARM`
- `ALARM`
- `NORMAL`
- `UNKNOWN`
- `OFFLINE`

Note that the sensors are polled about every 15 seconds. So it might take some time before an alarm state will be propagated. If an unknown state is found that is not supported yet, the hexadecimal code will be assigned as state. Please open an issue [here](https://github.com/jbouwh/lib-elro-connects/issues/new) if a new state needs to be supported.

The `siren` platform (for enabling a test alarm) was tested and is supported for Fire, Heat, CO and Water alarms.

{% if not installed %}

## Installation

1. Click install.
2. In the HA UI go to "Configuration" -> "Integrations" click "+" and search for "Elro Connects" and add the integration.
3. When the installation via HACS is done, restart Home Assistant.

{% endif %}

#### Configuring the integration

1. You need the IP-address and your Elro Connects cloud credentials (`username` and `password`) to setup the integration. This will get the `connector_id` and `api_key` for local access of your connector. After the setup has finished setup, the cloud credentials will not be used during operation.
2. An alternative is a manual setup. For this you need to fill in the `connector_id`, leave `username` and `password` fields open. which can be obtained from the Elro Connects app. Go to the `home` tab and click on the settings wheel. Select `current connector`. A list will be shown with your connectors. The ID starts with `ST_xxx...`.
3. The API key is probably not needed as long as it is provided by the connector locally. This behavior might change in the future.

***

[integration_blueprint]: https://github.com/jbouwh/ha-elro/connects
[commits-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/y/jbouwh/ha-elro-connects.svg?style=for-the-badge
[commits]: https://github.com/jbouwh/ha-elro-connects/commits/main
[hacs]: https://hacs.xyz
[hacsbadge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Custom-orange.svg?style=for-the-badge
[exampleimg]: example.png
[forum-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/community-forum-brightgreen.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io/
[license]: https://github.com/jbouwh/ha-elro/connects/blob/main/LICENSE
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/jbouwh/ha-elro/connects.svg?style=for-the-badge
[maintenance-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/maintainer-Jan%20Bouwhuis%20%40jbouwh-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/release/jbouwh/ha-elro/connects.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases]: https://github.com/jbouwh/ha-elro/connects/releases
[user_profile]: https://github.com/jbouwh

Commit message:

Add to HACS default, update docs (#22)
* Add to HACS default, update docs

* Remove manual adding repo via HACS

info.md, after:

[![GitHub Release][releases-shield]][releases]
[![License][license-shield]][LICENCE]

[![hacs][hacsbadge]][hacs]
![Project Maintenance][maintenance-shield]

[![Community Forum][forum-shield]][forum]

# Elro Connects K1
The Elro Connects integration will allow users to integrate their Elro Connects fire, heat, CO, water, or smoke alarms as a siren entity into Home Assistant. The alarms can be tested (and silenced) through the siren turn on (and turn off) services. The integration discovers entities (automatically) through an Elro Connects K1 connector plug. The entity names assigned in the Elro Connects app will be synced with Home Assistant.

> There is also a K2 connector available, but this K2 connector will not work with this software.

The integration only supports the Elro Connects K1 connector (SF40GA) mainly sold in Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium and France. The manufactor of this connector is Siterwell, and its prodycs are also sold under the name FamilyWell Smart Security EcoSystem (gateway product GS188A). This integration support the legacy gateway, not the new generation that is working via Tuya using a zigbee gateway.
The integration is not tested with the Siterwell branded devices, but some user reports indicate this is working too.

**This component will set up the following platforms.**

Platform | Description
-- | --
`sensor` | Adds a `device state` sensor, a `battery level` sensor and a `signal` sensor (disabled by default) for each device.
`siren` | Represents Elro Connects alarms as a siren. Turn the siren `ON` to test it. Turn it `OFF` to silence the (test) alarm.

The `device_state` sensor can have of the following states:
- `FAULT`
- `SILENCE`
- `TEST ALARM`
- `FIRE ALARM`
- `ALARM`
- `NORMAL`
- `UNKNOWN`
- `OFFLINE`

Note that the sensors are polled about every 15 seconds. So it might take some time before an alarm state will be propagated. If an unknown state is found that is not supported yet, the hexadecimal code will be assigned as state. Please open an issue [here](https://github.com/jbouwh/lib-elro-connects/issues/new) if a new state needs to be supported.

The `siren` platform (for enabling a test alarm) was tested and is supported for Fire, Heat, CO and Water alarms.
Other device might only support a `device_state`, `signal_strength` and `battery` sensor. Note that the `device_state` and
`signal_strength`sensors are not enabled by default.

{% if not installed %}

## Installation

1. Click install.
2. In the HA UI go to "Configuration" -> "Integrations" click "+" and search for "Elro Connects" and add the integration.
3. When the installation via HACS is done, restart Home Assistant.

{% endif %}

#### Configuring the integration

1. You need the IP-address and your Elro Connects cloud credentials (`username` and `password`) to setup the integration. This will get the `connector_id` and `api_key` for local access of your connector. After the setup has finished setup, the cloud credentials will not be used during operation.
2. An alternative is a manual setup. For this you need to fill in the `connector_id`, leave `username` and `password` fields open. which can be obtained from the Elro Connects app. Go to the `home` tab and click on the settings wheel. Select `current connector`. A list will be shown with your connectors. The ID starts with `ST_xxx...`.
3. The API key is probably not needed as long as it is provided by the connector locally. This behavior might change in the future.

***

[integration_blueprint]: https://github.com/jbouwh/ha-elro/connects
[commits-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/y/jbouwh/ha-elro-connects.svg?style=for-the-badge
[commits]: https://github.com/jbouwh/ha-elro-connects/commits/main
[hacs]: https://hacs.xyz
[hacsbadge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-orange.svg?style=for-the-badge
[exampleimg]: example.png
[forum-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/community-forum-brightgreen.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io/
[license]: https://github.com/jbouwh/ha-elro/connects/blob/main/LICENSE
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/jbouwh/ha-elro-connects.svg?style=for-the-badge

[maintenance-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/maintainer-Jan%20Bouwhuis-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/release/jbouwh/ha-elro/connects.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases]: https://github.com/jbouwh/ha-elro-connects/releases
[user_profile]: https://github.com/jbouwh
