README.md, before:

# ha-elro-connects

[![GitHub Release][releases-shield]][releases]
[![License][license-shield]](LICENSE)

[![hacs][hacsbadge]][hacs]
![Project Maintenance][maintenance-shield]

[![Community Forum][forum-shield]][forum]

**This component will set up the following platforms.**

Platform | Description
-- | --
`sensor` | Adds a `device state` sensor, a `battery level` sensor and a `signal` sensor (disabled by default) for each device.
`siren` | Represents Elro Connects alarms as a siren. Turn the siren `ON` to test it. Turn it `OFF` to silence the (test) alarm.

The `siren` platform (for enabling a test alarm) was tested and is supported for Fire, Heat, CO and Water alarms.

## Installation

### Using HACS

1. Install the [Home Assistant Community Store (HACS)](https://hacs.xyz/docs/setup/download).
2. Add Elro Connects as custom repository. See [the HACS FAQ](https://hacs.xyz/docs/faq/custom_repositories) and add `https://github.com/jbouwh/ha-elro-connects` as repository.
3. Select `integration` as category.
4. After this you should be able to add, download and install Elro Connects as a custom integration via HACS.
5. When the installation via HACS is done, restart Home Assistant.
6. In the HA UI go to "Configuration" -> "Integrations" click "+" and search for "Elro Connects"

### Manual

1. Using the tool of choice open the directory (folder) for your HA configuration (where you find `configuration.yaml`).
2. If you do not have a `custom_components` directory (folder) there, you need to create it.
3. In the `custom_components` directory (folder) create a new folder called `elro_connects`.
4. Download _all_ the files from the `custom_components/elro_connects/` directory (folder) in this repository.
5. Place the files you downloaded in the new directory (folder) you created.
6. Restart Home Assistant
7. In the HA UI go to "Configuration" -> "Integrations" click "+" and search for "Elro Connects"

Using your HA configuration directory (folder) as a starting point you should now also have something like this:

```text
custom_components/elro_connects/translations/en.json
custom_components/elro_connects/translations/nl.json
custom_components/elro_connects/__init__.py
custom_components/elro_connects/api.py
custom_components/elro_connects/sensor.py
custom_components/elro_connects/siren.py
custom_components/elro_connects/config_flow.py
custom_components/elro_connects/const.py
custom_components/elro_connects/manifest.json
...
```

## Configuration is done in the UI

<!---->


***

[elro_connects]: https://github.com/jbouwh/ha-elro-connects
[hacs]: https://github.com/custom-components/hacs
[hacsbadge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Custom-orange.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forum-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/community-forum-brightgreen.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io/
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/custom-components/blueprint.svg?style=for-the-badge
[maintenance-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/maintainer-Jan%20Bouwhuis-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/jbouwh/ha-elro-connects?include_prereleases&style=for-the-badge
[releases]: https://github.com/jbouwh/ha-elro-connects/releases

Commit message:

Add auth config flow (#6)
* Update backend - documentation - version v0.2.0

* Add support cloud config

* Documentation update

* Add tests

README.md, after:

# ha-elro-connects

[![GitHub Release][releases-shield]][releases]
[![License][license-shield]](LICENSE)

[![hacs][hacsbadge]][hacs]
![Project Maintenance][maintenance-shield]

[![Community Forum][forum-shield]][forum]

**This component will set up the following platforms.**

Platform | Description
-- | --
`sensor` | Adds a `device state` sensor, a `battery level` sensor and a `signal` sensor (disabled by default) for each device.
`siren` | Represents Elro Connects alarms as a siren. Turn the siren `ON` to test it. Turn it `OFF` to silence the (test) alarm.

The `device_state` sensor can have of the following states:
- `FAULT`
- `SILENCE`
- `TEST ALARM`
- `FIRE ALARM`
- `ALARM`
- `NORMAL`
- `UNKNOWN`
- `OFFLINE`

Note that the sensors are polled about every 15 seconds. So it might take some time before an alarm state will be propagated. If an unknown state is found that is not supported yet, the hexadecimal code will be assigned as state. Please open an issue [here](https://github.com/jbouwh/lib-elro-connects/issues/new) if a new state needs to be supported.

The `siren` platform (for enabling a test alarm) was tested and is supported for Fire, Heat, CO and Water alarms.

## Installation

### Using HACS

1. Install the [Home Assistant Community Store (HACS)](https://hacs.xyz/docs/setup/download).
2. Add Elro Connects as custom repository. See [the HACS FAQ](https://hacs.xyz/docs/faq/custom_repositories) and add `https://github.com/jbouwh/ha-elro-connects` as repository.
3. Select `integration` as category.
4. After this you should be able to add, download and install Elro Connects as a custom integration via HACS.
5. When the installation via HACS is done, restart Home Assistant.
6. In the HA UI go to "Configuration" -> "Integrations" click "+" and search for "Elro Connects"

### Manual

1. Using the tool of choice open the directory (folder) for your HA configuration (where you find `configuration.yaml`).
2. If you do not have a `custom_components` directory (folder) there, you need to create it.
3. In the `custom_components` directory (folder) create a new folder called `elro_connects`.
4. Download _all_ the files from the `custom_components/elro_connects/` directory (folder) in this repository.
5. Place the files you downloaded in the new directory (folder) you created.
6. Restart Home Assistant
7. In the HA UI go to "Configuration" -> "Integrations" click "+" and search for "Elro Connects"

Using your HA configuration directory (folder) as a starting point you should now also have something like this:

#### Configuring the integration

1. You need the IP-address and your Elro Connects cloud credentials (`username` and `password`) to setup the integration. This will get the `connector_id` and `api_key` for local access of your connector. After the setup has finished setup, the cloud credentials will not be used during operation.
2. An alternative is a manual setup. For this you need to fill in the `connector_id`, leave `username` and `password` fields open. which can be obtained from the Elro Connects app. Go to the `home` tab and click on the settings wheel. Select `current connector`. A list will be shown with your connectors. The ID starts with `ST_xxx...`.
3. The API key is probably not needed as long as it is provided by the connector locally. This behavior might change in the future.


```text
custom_components/elro_connects/translations/en.json
custom_components/elro_connects/translations/nl.json
custom_components/elro_connects/__init__.py
custom_components/elro_connects/api.py
custom_components/elro_connects/sensor.py
custom_components/elro_connects/siren.py
custom_components/elro_connects/config_flow.py
custom_components/elro_connects/const.py
custom_components/elro_connects/manifest.json
...
```

## Configuration is done in the UI

<!---->


***

[elro_connects]: https://github.com/jbouwh/ha-elro-connects
[hacs]: https://github.com/custom-components/hacs
[hacsbadge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Custom-orange.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forum-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/community-forum-brightgreen.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io/
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/custom-components/blueprint.svg?style=for-the-badge
[maintenance-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/maintainer-Jan%20Bouwhuis-blue.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/jbouwh/ha-elro-connects?include_prereleases&style=for-the-badge
[releases]: https://github.com/jbouwh/ha-elro-connects/releases
